* Why automation will change your life *                 -*-muse-*-

What if you could put everything on auto-pilot?  Think of the
potential that you could have if everything you wished to do could be
fully accomplished by just speaking a word.  Imagine a computer with a
magic console.  Type the word and the thing is done (exactly how you
wish it to be done).

If you have the ability to program, that goal is not far off.
You can create a daily habit of automation that is similar to cleaning
up after yourself.  Most of us don't treat cleaning up as a monster
project that we dread doing.  Instead after we are done using
something we put it away where it belongs.

Automation is more of a mindset than a project.  If you do something
repeatedly you ask, "Why?".  In order to automate you begin to see
redundancy as a major problem.  Any task that you repeat a hundred
times is a loss, while a task that you repeat 100,000 times is
stealing your life.

Based on my life expectancy, I have about 10,000 days left.  Any task
that I do ten times each day is likely to be done 100,000 times.  If
the task can be reduced by one minute it is a huge savings over my
lifetime.  If you can find repetitive tasks that account for four
hours of your day then you can double your work productivity.  

How you spend this new time is up to you.  You can accomplish twice as
much for your boss.  This also means that you can spend half your time
doing relaxing activities or learning new skills.

Learning to automate will change your life in a fundamental way.  It
is not just about doing more.  Instead it shifts the focus away from
busy work to things that you really want to do.

The justification that you give to others is that you can accomplish
more with less effort.  But the true reason you automate is that it
allows you to focus on what matters most.


