* Seven Principles of Automation *                 -*-muse-*-

Your success at automating major aspects of your life depends on how
well you apply the following core principles. It is possible to spend
a lot of effort and see very little return.

 * Incremental development
 * Long-term return on investment
 * Test everything
 * Embedded knowledge
 * Follow the pain
 * Focus on one thing
 * Minimum planning

**Incremental development**

Take small steps.  No, take smaller steps.  Ok, take baby steps.  But
take a lot of them.  Don't ever embark on a glorious project to
overhaul everything. Make a small adjustment, keeping everything else
the same.  Observe the result and do it again.  Small changes always
win over big ones.

**Long-term return on investment**

Your plans should always be built to maximize your value over the long
term.  Because you are going to build in small steps you are protected
in the short term.  But you will have to make a small investment in
the short term.  Pick things to automate that have a great payoff for
the rest of your life.

**Test everything**

When you make changes don't trust them right off.  Make sure that the
automatic thing is doing exactly what you want.  After you see it work
several times then you can fully trust it.  Things don't typically
break themselves.  However, if you change something related then you
have to test that whole area around it.

**Capture embedded knowledge**

If you have to spend time figuring something out then why not write a
script to record what you learned.  If it is a computer task then
consider writing an executable script to do anything that you spend
time learning.  Even if the script needs to be adjusted before it will
work later, then it is still a good basis of future learning.

**Follow the pain**

If it hurts you fix it!  Automation is tremendously empowering.  If
you spend to much time finding emails, then fix it.  If you find
yourself editing the same type of text files, over and over, then fix
it. If you spend time worrying about replicating files between
computers, then fix it.

**Focus on one thing**

Change one thing at a time.  If you change multiple things then you
may not know what caused the change.  Also bigger changes may make
your overall work output decrease.  Our goal is to keep the work
flowing and always be changing something to make it better.  Don't
risk shutting the system down.

**Minimum planning**

It is better to make small plans than large ones.  Big changes imply
big plans and big risk.  Focus on implementing small changes rather
than entertaining grandiose ideas of a new world order.  You will get
there faster with stable incremental change.
